# Welcome to LORIS!
## Low Orbit Reconaissance Imaging Satellite
### Introduction

LORIS is a 2U CubeSat being developed by Dalhousie University. LORIS's payload features two cameras; one which takes pictures using visible spectrum light and a second which takes pictures using near-infrared light (NIR). This repository contains all source code for the Core Software System (CSS) that will run on the satellite's on-board computer (OBC). It's primarily written in C++, while making use of other languages such as the BASH scripting language. The CSS is responsible for holding all data generated by every external subsystem, storing all generated data, issuing commands to subsystems to change their state, and completing missions received from an external sender in a way that the satellite maintains a nominal state.

### Software Break Down

The entire repository contains code for three distrinct parts: Core, Emulation, and Ground Station.

#### Core
The Core code is what will be used on the OBC of the satellite. It contains all logic necessary for ensuring successful, autonomous operation of the satellite.

<!-- #### Emulation
The Emulation code is used to emulate the hardware subsystems during development of the CSS.

#### Ground Station

The Ground Station code is used to create an interface that operators can use to interact with the CubeSat, whether its being simulated in a nearby computer or in orbit. From here, operators can request data, issue commands, test/debug, and start simulations. -->


### Code Conventions

Using Google C++ conventions. Reference here:

https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html

### Committing Code

Using the following Git model for development, testing, hot-fixes, and merging:
https://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/?


### Project Directories

build – Output executables (“targets”). The suffix `_d` indicates debug version.
<!-- data – Files used by the main executable. -->
docs – Project’s documentation, auto-generated.
<!-- deps – Subdirectories with external dependencies like libraries. -->
<!-- obj – Binary objects created during compilation. -->
src – Source files of the project with subdirectories if needed.
include - Project header file.
<!-- test – Source files of tests. -->
.gitignore – Prevents adding binary and temporary files to the git repository.
LICENSE – Describes how this project can be used and distributed.
README.md – General information about the project in Markdown format.

## Building the Project

In a terminal, run:
```
$ cd CubeSat-Core
$ cmake src -B build
$ cmake --build build
```
And watch the magic happen :) You'll find the compiled binaries in the `build/` directory.

## Code Documentation 

You may find the code documentation at http://cubesat.alexamellal.com . If you wish, you can generate the documentation yourself by running:
```sh 
doxygen Doxyfile
```